The people of the world
are more or less the same.
Though we may come in
different shapes and colors,
we all share
the same inheritance.
And we all have our back
stories, and our secrets.
Like this man, running along
the river Scheldt in Antwerp.
What is he running from?
What is he trying to escape?
Even though evolution
might seem to mature us,
there are still
parts of our brain
that belong to
our reptile ancestors.
Although we've convinced
ourselves that hate,
revenge, and nemesis
belong to the past,
our ancient ancestor's blood
still runs in our veins,
whether we like it or not.
Feels like
a bloody good campaign.
As usual, you'd have to say.
After holiday,
we'll get started on images.
I'll mail over a few suggestions
for photographers.
Excellent. Have a great
holiday, and we'll be in touch.
- Thank you, guys. Thank you.
- Bye-bye.
You're a genius Henry,
you know that?
Well, I don't know about that.
Haven't we already discussed
your raises?
Five more days, guys,
can't wait.
- Until the holidays, you mean?
- Yeah.
John, we're waiting for you.
Damn it.
I love being at work.
Come on.
So what are your plans?
For the holiday?
We've rented a small house
in Cote d'Azur.
We're gonna head down there,
do lots of long walks on the beach,
piles of books, lots of good
food, that sort of thing.
- Sounds decent.
- Well...
In case you wondered,
we'll be damp proofing
the basement.
Consider that when you complain
about sand in your swimming trunks.
- Hi, Henry.
- Hey, Paula.
- Yeah.
- How are you? Paula...
- Polans... Polanski.
- Polanski.
- Yeah, how are you?
- I'm good.
Wow. It's gotta be
ten years since that...
- Uh, almost exactly. Yeah.
- Wow.
Do you live, uh,
here in Maardam?
No, I live in Antwerp now.
I'm just here
on a couple of days work.
Oh.
- So, Film Academy?
- Yeah.
Mainly because I didn't know
what else to do with myself,
but, uh,
I got in for whatever reason.
Well, to make documentaries,
which is what you're doing now, isn't it?
I think I've seen
one of them on ARTE.
- Uh, Roman Beggars.
- Roman, that's it.
- Won an award.
- Did it?
- Yeah.
- Good for you. That's great.
- Thanks. Thanks.
- Well done.
I haven't actually been back
to Kaalbringen since I've...
Well, I stopped being a teacher.
Wasn't really my thing.
- So...
- Yeah, I know.
You work for one of those big,
uh, advertising agencies.
That's... that's right.
How do you...
The reunion.
Oh, you're on the mailing list.
Oh, right. The reunion.
How was that?
Almost everyone
was there except you.
Oh...
All right, yeah.
I don't know why that was.
- I meant to come.
- Yeah. Sure.
Don't worry.
You weren't the only teacher
- that didn't show up.
- Okay, cool.
An actual fact,
I was just a substitute teacher,
not an actual teacher, so...
- Yeah.
- I don't...
This is me.
- Nice seeing you.
- And you.
I'm just staying
at the Metropole, so...
Okay.
You live here in...
in Maardam?
Yeah, in Wassingen.
It's a dreadful, dreadful place.
But I probably have to win
the Academy Award
to get some advantage, though.
- Anyway...
- Well, listen, it's been nice seeing you.
- Yeah, you, too.
- Bye.
Bye.
Yeah, mainly because I didn't
know what else to do with myself,
but, uh, I got in
for whatever reason.
Well, to make documentaries,
which is what you're doing now, isn't it?
As far as I know,
he's never had a visitor.
You're the first.
What's this for?
It's a... it's a hard drive,
just to store the footage.
Oh, yeah. Hm...
It's all beyond me, any who.
If you ask me,
Jacob Kall is a sick bastard.
He's been in here ten years.
He'll end his days in here.
He'll never be released.
It's a battery.
All right.
Yeah, I'll be
outside that door.
For your sake,
just so you know.
He sometimes gets it
into this head to be violent.
Yeah, yeah, I know.
We never met, you and I,
but I was in the same class
as your daughter, Vera.
You know, she never talked about you
or her life on the farm in Samaria.
Always cycled home
when we went out drinking.
We never really understood why.
Well, she never
talked about it,
but, um, she was so...
important to me.
Well, not just to me,
to all of us.
We had a reunion
a couple of weeks ago.
Almost everyone was there.
And it was really hard
to avoid talking about her.
Your daughter...
your only daughter, even.
Could you tell me a bit about
your relationship with her?
What was she like as a kid?
Was she... happy?
At the reunion,
we talked a lot about
how me missed having
a grave to visit,
and how you're probably the only
person who knows where she's buried.
That's if you even bothered
to bury her?
Only God
knows where Vera is.
Can I ask you
what you believe?
I believe in God
and His will.
Okay.
I don't understand.
Are you saying that Vera's death
was God's will?
Even though you
never made a confession,
and her body was never found,
you were found guilty
and banged up for life.
Do you maintain your innocence?
Do you also claim to be
innocent of the accusations
that you repeatedly
mistreated her as a child?
Injuries that were documented
by the school nurse.
The accident and emergency
department at Kaalbringen.
Although neither Vera
nor your wife
dared to speak out about it.
Paula, I think you're
looking for some sort of guilt.
The guilt laid on my shoulders
is of this world.
But I'll tell you what,
this world doesn't belong to me.
What human being has the right
to kill another person?
We are all just
simple instruments
of a greater will.
So you claim your innocence.
So who did kill her?
I sit here...
most likely knocked up
for the rest of my life.
And it was
probably meant to be.
Sorry.
It's meant to be.
You see, I can get
so much more work done in here.
There are people in here
who are willing to listen.
So many lost souls
finally have a safe haven.
The question is rather if you,
Paula Polanski,
can understand this.
I've been thinking about
where you must have buried her.
I know the police did some
digging and searched with dogs.
But down by the river,
there's this little piece of land.
And I'm thinking maybe that's
where they should have looked?
Or on the other side?
In the forest? Yeah?
I'm thinking
she must have been heavy.
Dead body weighs a ton.
Maybe you used your tractor?
Though you
would've had to dug deep
because you wouldn't want
a fox to dig her up.
I've never quite grasped
why all you little people
need to know everything.
It's a human weakness
to be obsessed with the truth.
As if it were up to us.
As if the truth even existed.
Already done?
Yeah.
Didn't get very far.
Right.
Let's get going, Jacob.
I'll just take him
through the security gate.
If you wait here,
I'll see you out after that.
Thanks.
That question you never asked.
No, I didn't kill Vera.
Yeah, I've just finished.
Just... just on my way
to that meeting.
Yeah, I know, I just wanna...
I promise.
Just... I hear you.
I promise I will.
I'll probably be on
the 7:00 train anyways.
No, don't be silly.
I'll just get a taxi.
All right.
I love you.
It was the first time we'd all
been together since then.
So... but it...
It was like everyone
needed to talk about Vera.
Felt unfinished... somehow.
I mean, really, we...
Could have done
with a grave visit.
It was a strange time.
It was...
Life got too serious
much too soon, it felt.
More so for you than for me.
Yeah. Yeah.
Sorry.
Uh, care for another?
Um, yeah.
Yeah, thanks.
- Not for me. Thank you.
- Oh.
So...
Hm?
Apart from that,
what's happening?
Shacked up?
Married? No.
I'm living with someone.
Clara, in Antwerp.
She's... she's great.
Ooh.
Found these the other day.
Oh, no.
Ring any bells?
Dear, oh, dear.
Where have you got this?
That's a long time ago.
I remember that.
Oh, this is the, uh,
the graduation party at, uh, the, um...
- Limburg Rooms.
- The Limburg Rooms, that's right.
Goodness me. You were
walking around that night
with your fantastic
old camera, as always.
Yeah. Nikon.
- All right.
- Oh, thank you.
- Thank you.
- Thanks.
- I used to develop my own pictures as well.
- Right.
Was the worst kind of nerd,
even then.
Here you are.
Schoolmaster Maertens.
A tie? What on Earth
was I thinking?
Here's me with, um,
with Sebastian.
Oh, look at that.
You haven't changed, have you?
Oh, thanks.
And here she is,
Vera Kall.
Oh.
What was her father called?
- Jacob.
- He's locked up in Bittinger.
- Yeah.
Serving life sentence.
Maintains his innocence.
Actually, I met him yesterday.
Met him?
That Jacob Kall?
Yeah.
I... I interviewed him.
I'm gonna make a film.
Tell the story...
story of Vera.
I think she's worth that much.
I'd really like you
to be in it.
- Henry...
- I was a substitute teacher
for one term, all right?
I have to get my train.
But you were an important person
to all of us.
And the film
is not gonna be about you.
I've already spoken
to Beatrice Motte,
I'm gonna speak to
Commissioner Keller,
and I'll speak to Jacob Kall
again if I have to.
Although, I'd... I'd...
I'd rather not.
A girl in your class
was murdered.
I'm really surprised
you don't seem to care.
I don't wanna be in your film.
I'm sorry.
What, because you think
it's a bad idea?
It will open up
a lot of old wounds,
and it will upset
a lot of people.
I do believe that.
I think it's better
to just let things lie.
Okay. I know that.
- Good.
- But...
I am gonna make this film.
You'll have to do it without me.
I'm sorry.
Yes, I rented out
the upper floor
because it was rather difficult
managing my own finances
after my husband passed away.
God bless him.
He was useless in most ways,
but there were certain things
I'd still come to depend
on him for.
Sorry.
Um... I'm gonna take this,
actually. Sorry.
- Hello.
- Paula.
Hi. It's... it's Henry Maertens.
Am I calling at a bad time?
No, no, no, no.
Not at all.
Great. I... I was thinking
maybe I'll take
a trip to Kaalbringen
after all.
- Yeah?
- Yes, well, I was thinking
about what you said.
And, uh, maybe I could
be of some help.
Great.
Is the Hotel Continental
still there, do you know?
Uh... uh, I think so, but, um,
you could stay with me.
I've, I've borrowed my parents'
summerhouse by the river.
No, no, I don't... I, um...
There's plenty of space.
And you can tell Clara
that I'm gay,
so... so no problem there.
- Um...
- Let's just leave it at that.
Let me find The Continental,
see if they have a room.
Ah, okay, I'm just about
to drive through a tunnel.
Pau...
Sorry.
Okay.
Uh, where were we?
Um, were there lots of, uh,
visitors or friends dropping in?
Well, I don't know.
I... I can't really remember.
It was a long time ago.
Wow. It's gotta be
ten years since then.
- Almost exactly.
- An actual fact,
I was just a substitute
teacher, not an actual teacher.
Yeah, I know.
Hi. I'm looking for Mr. Kruggel.
I'm Henry Maertens,
the substitute teacher.
Oh. I'm Susanne.
Come in.
Dad's waiting for you.
Thanks.
Can't imagine
he'll ever improve.
Always late.
Always.
Uh, Emil Bachmann.
An idiot.
Okay. Uh, Paula Polanski.
She did very well in her,
uh, in her standard test.
- Paula Polanski?
- I don't know, I...
I haven't actually met
any of the students yet.
Ah, the mousey one. Yes.
We're nearly finished.
I promise.
Um, Niels Buhltoft?
Uh, neither fish nor fowl.
Uh, unless he does something
out of the ordinary
in his special assignment
on literature.
Um, can I offer you
a coffee or something?
Um... no, do you know what?
I think I'm good.
- I think I should probably go.
- Okay.
Thanks so much for your help.
I, uh, I have an appointment
with the, uh, the headmaster
in 20 minutes. So...
- Hey.
- Hi.
- You all right?
- Yeah, good. Welcome.
Thank you.
- Good to see you.
- Yeah, yeah, you too.
I... I was surprised
when you called
because when we met in Maardam,
you sounded...
- Yeah.
- Very negative.
Yeah, sorry, about that.
Yeah, I managed to get
a couple of days free.
Clara's, uh,
she'd step into work this week.
She's a doctor, yup.
Cardiologist.
Did... did I tell you
about Vera's mother?
No.
Well, she... she died
a couple of months ago.
Oh.
When Vera's father
was convicted, she left.
She just walked out
of that house, never went back.
Moved in with
her sister, apparently.
Mm...
- Samaria.
- What?
It's the name of the farm
where Vera grew up.
Ah, yeah.
Sounds so beautiful.
Samaria? Yeah.
Yeah, I suppose it does.
Like something out of
a fairytale... almost.
- A little like Vera herself.
- Hm, yeah, maybe.
Bit hungover today, guys?
No pleasure without pain,
isn't it?
All right?
You don't know
what's happened, do you?
What?
Vera. Vera Kall.
She never came home last night.
- Oh.
- Her mother report her missing to the police.
Well, I'm sure she's fine.
I'm sure she probably
just stayed over
with a friend or something.
Okay? She'll be fine.
- Hey.
Can I get a double espresso,
please?
Of course. Coming up.
This is not only about
Vera and her family,
it is about all of us
at City College.
So I'd like to remind you
that all information,
anything you saw at the Limburg
Rooms could be vitally important.
You may think some item
of information
is of no use at all,
but it could prove to be
exactly that little
missing piece of the puzzle,
that will bring clarity to the circumstances
surrounding Vera's disappearance.
So don't hesitate.
If for some reason
you don't want to talk
to the police directly,
we are here.
You can turn
to any member of staff.
Or to me, of course.
Wow.
It's great.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's nice, isn't it?
So I've, um,
I've given you the room
- that overlooks the river.
- Okay. Sounds very flash.
And I've, uh, I've moved myself
into the box room.
Ah.
So how long can you stay?
Couple of days, if not, more.
Cool.
How are you planning on
making this film?
Well, when you're
making a documentary,
you don't really know
where it's gonna end,
but I'm trying to meet everyone
who knew her, interview them,
and see if I can build up
a picture of her.
With all the plans
to visit the grave,
or whatever it is
we're calling it?
Yeah, that might
have been part of my plan,
but having met Jacob Kall,
I'd say that's a little
too much to hope for.
Going for a new angle?
Um, remains to be seen.
You know, she...
she clearly made an impression.
Everybody has
their own picture of Vera.
I know I do, anyway.
Maybe you do as well.
Uh, yeah, as I recall her,
she was a very good student.
I want to understand,
partially just who she was,
but also what it does to us when
someone just disappears out of our...
You know, how we just carry on
living as if nothing has happened.
And is that what we really do?
I suppose not.
Do you want coffee?
Please. Yeah, that'd be great.
Thanks.
At the same time, there is some
strange stuff in this story.
For instance, why did it take the
police so long to arrest her father?
And what was her mother's role
in all of this?
Is she completely exonerated?
Or what if Jacob Kall is telling
the truth and he's innocent?
Are you serious?
No, no, no, he's a monster,
I mean, you just have to
keep the door open
- when it's a work in progress.
- Of course.
I'm guessing
you know how to do that.
I hope so.
It was just like
in that film
with, um, Bill Murray.
What's it called?
Uh, Groundhog Day.
I rented a room from an old
widow, uh, Mrs. Kuntze.
Same routine, every morning.
It was me and this guy,
Kellerman,
an optician's assistant.
Aged...
- Morning, Kellerman.
- ...somewhere between 30 and 60.
We shared a bathroom with, uh, Tomas, Mrs.
Kuntze's old cat.
I don't think he ever said
one word to me
while I was there.
Who? The cat or Kellerman?
Very good.
No, thanks.
I, um... packed those in
a long time ago.
So tell me about...
uh, about Clara.
Yeah, what...
what do you wanna know?
- You live in Antwerp.
- Mm-hm.
- She's a... a doctor.
- Doctor. Yeah.
- You're a copywriter.
- Mm-hm.
What else? Any, any kids?
No. No.
We, um...
Didn't, uh...
Hasn't really worked out.
That kinda thing.
If, um... Yeah.
Was... was it something I said?
Oh, no. Don't be silly.
No, um, things have been
very hard on the home front
of late but...
- You wanna talk about it?
- There's not a lot to say.
Clara and I always
intended to have children,
but I've later backed away from
it, I don't know why.
So on Tuesday, she decided
she'd waited long enough.
She took the car and the dog
and went to her sister's house.
Cancelled the reservation
for the house
that we're about to rent
in the south of France,
- and doesn't answer my calls.
- So that's why you came.
No.
How about you?
Anyone?
Um... Oh...
I... I don't know,
I've, um...
- Taking some time out from that sorta thing.
- Right.
I'm not so good at the whole
relationship, uh, thing, yeah.
- Thank you.
- She just, um...
She started seeing
somebody else.
And everything just
ran into the sand.
I don't know.
Maybe it s just as well.
Yeah.
So, uh, what do you
remember about us?
Us, your students...
- Oh.
- In class 3B at City College?
I liked being your teacher.
I liked it.
Not everyone, of course.
You know, some I like less,
like, a lot less.
But, you know, others more.
It felt strange at times being
in a position of authority
when I was only
a few years older than you.
Don't forget
tomorrow's the deadline
for handing in
your poetry analysis.
Do not forget, please.
But then that's how it was.
I was your teacher
and you were my student.
Good.
Every day, I'd pack up,
and then home again to...
to Mrs. Kuntze.
And we lived in a beautiful
neighborhood called the Pampa...
well, the Pampas, you know.
- Hi. How are you?
- Nothing for you.
Oh. Every time.
I came and went
as I pleased, really.
- What have you been doing today?
- Today was good.
Today, uh, I have 30 students
doing an essay
- on narrative structure.
- Oh, dear.
- Yes.
- Narrative...
And Mrs. Kuntze,
she was very kind.
As was her cat, Tomas.
And then every night
I'd sit up, correct tests,
prepare my work,
eventually falling asleep,
and waking again
to another exciting day.
When we got
changed after gym class,
I noticed she had
a big bruise on her arm.
She said she'd hurt herself
on some gym equipment.
- Oh, my God.
- I didn't know how things were for her at home.
- She never opened up about it.
- She didn't with anyone.
I mean, she could have
moved in with me!
I should have done something.
It was before it was too late.
That... that was...
I don't think there's anything any
of us could have done, you know?
I remember that party
as if it were yesterday,
the one at the Limburg Rooms.
When are you thinking?
It was the last time
I spoke to her,
in the girls' loo.
What time was that?
Eleven? Half past.
And anything else?
I don't know.
It's just...
the whole thing's so sad.
- Yeah.
- She was so happy!
Happy?
She wasn't usually the sort
- to be cheerful exactly.
- No.
It was as if something
good had happened in her life.
Anyway, that's all I got
because her kid
hit his head and started
screaming and, you know.
Great not to have kids.
- Sorry, sorry.
- I'm gonna go for a dip.
- I think I need to cool down a bit.
- Okay.
Hey, uh, you know,
Commissioner Keller
is coming in an hour,
if you wanna join.
Um... maybe I could
borrow the car?
- Okay.
- Great!
Um, but, uh,
my dad will kill you
if anything happens to that car,
you know.
No, no, no, I'm...
I'm serious, not a scratch.
Nah, school's
closed, it's summer.
I know that. I know.
I, um, I used to work here.
I was just wondering if I could
have a quick look around.
Let me know when you leave.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Can I come in?
Of course, you can, yeah.
Do with your help.
All right. Okay.
What can I help with?
I can't make up my mind
which one to choose?
Okay.
Ah...
Journey to the End of the Night
and Madame Bovary.
Well, you've chosen
two entirely different texts,
both classics.
Um, this is one of the world's
best known love stories.
Really, I'd like
to write about both,
but that might seem
a bit overambitious.
Yeah, maybe a little bit.
Um, Céline, on the other hand...
Uh, well, this is very dark.
It's all about the First World
War, a lot of anguish.
He was almost obsessed by death,
wasn't he?
Oh, that's a little bit
of an understatement, but, yeah.
I don't know.
I suppose if one...
if one were to say that Céline
is the true pessimist,
then you could also say that
Flaubert is his complete opposite.
If I were you,
I'd go for the Flaubert.
- Hmm.
- Because life is gloomy enough even without Céline in it.
And a little bit of love,
never did anybody any harm, so...
- Thanks.
- You're very welcome.
Then I know.
You've decided?
Yeah.
This one, of course.
Thanks.
In the beginning
she was just missing,
so we waited for her to return,
but she never did, in the end.
So we dredged the river,
searched her cycle routes
with dogs, formed human chains.
I think we questioned
close to 150 people.
Wow. You had a few
other suspects, didn't you?
Before you detained
Jacob Kall?
Well, there was a known rapist
who appears to have
been in the area.
An old jailbird
who lived nearby.
And her classmate,
Emil Bachmann.
That's what it said
in the paper.
He was in custody
for a while, wasn't he?
Arrested.
Dr. No let him go.
Oh, you mean, um...
Neyman, the prosecutor?
Neyman, yeah.
Who actually had
a point for once.
Mm, could I have
some more coffee?
Three weeks later,
you arrested Jacob Kall.
Talk about dragging your feet.
You'd been informed that
he'd mistreated Vera for years.
That was the only thing
that annoys me.
Yeah, but three weeks?
Is that what you call
good police work?
Sometimes that's just how it is.
But the worst of it was
that it gave him plenty of time
to cover his tracks.
And although he'd scrubbed
the place down,
we quickly found
Vera's blood in the kitchen.
And eventually we found Vera's dress
in her wardrobe, also covered in blood.
We turned the house upside down.
We dug up half the neighborhood.
You didn't find anything?
We didn't even
find her bicycle.
But, as I said,
he had a fair amount of time.
It still riles me.
What about
Vera's mother, Monica?
What was her role
in all of this?
Who knows.
We didn't manage to get
one sensible word out of her.
Do you think she was afraid?
I don't think Vera Kall
was the only one
to come face-to-face
with Jacob Kall's lunacy.
Let's put it that way.
Isn't it a little bit weird
to sentence someone
for a murder without a corpse?
But not unique.
And in this case there were,
uh, number of indicators
and technical evidence.
And there was proof that she
had been maltreated at home.
- And now he's banged up for life.
- Yes.
Despite never having
confessed to the crime.
Jacob Kall is not
the confessing type.
So just turning
the clock back a little bit.
You interviewed some witnesses aside
from the people at the Limburg Rooms.
Yes, we had people who saw
her cycling away from the party.
Some claimed she cycled off in
the wrong direction, towards town.
Others saw her
around the industrial estate.
But everything points to having
cycled home at about...
about 11:30, in which case she would've
got home about 45 minutes later.
But that's not all,
though, right?
What are you suggesting?
Emil Bachmann left the
Limburg Rooms just before Vera.
I know that for sure.
But he didn't get home until
half past 4:00 in the morning,
that's what
the newspaper guy said.
It's in the Morning Post.
- I have the cutting right here.
- But one thing I can tell you,
we had witnesses who saw
Bachmann at the bus station
at the exact same time
as he was allegedly
trying to break into a car
on the other side of town.
And there were people
who could confidently say
that they saw Vera Kall
cycling home at 1:00
and 2:00 and 3:00
in the morning.
Even a drunk who says
he saw her catch
the first train to Altmaar
at 6:15, wearing angel wings.
If you take
every tip-off seriously,
you completely lose the plot.
That's just how it is.
And I think
I'm going to call it a day.
Okay. Well, thanks
for coming all this way.
Well, hello there.
And who might you be
lurking in the shadows?
I'm Henry Maertens.
I was one of the teachers at City College.
Are you also involved
in this film spectacle?
Well, not exactly.
I'm probably a bit like you, um,
I'm a bit of
an interview victim, I think.
Oh, whatever. I'm off.
Well, nice to meet you.
Uh, good luck.
Maybe you could
cut that last bit.
Yeah, I'll let you see
the final edit
before I lock it down,
like I promised.
- Um, one final question.
- Yeah?
Do you know if Vera
had a boyfriend?
Well, there was no indication,
no one came forward.
Her mobile was gone,
and anyway she had
one of those top-up cards.
There was no diary or anything.
No computer of her own.
But I bet there was
a bloke somewhere.
She was an attractive looking
girl to say the least.
And her father wasn't the kind to
encourage those kinds of liaisons.
- So there's your motive.
- But why would he...
Jacob Kall is a true bastard.
Let him rot.
Paula, how about lunch
in town on me?
Well, I was all set up
to interview you.
There's no hurry for that,
is there?
No, not as far as I'm concerned.
- Good.
- Uh, good.
Okay, let me just, um,
uh, pack everything up.
Yeah.
- Is she not answering?
- No.
What's she like, Claire,
is she attractive?
I'll show you
a picture if you like.
Look, you're analog.
I like that.
Hmm.
Thanks.
Do you love her?
Right now it feels...
Feels a bit like I'm about to lose
her, or something.
Anyway.
Emil Bachmann
isn't answering either.
I've emailed him and called him
a number of times,
but it's just...
He's just declining my calls.
It's hardly
surprising, isn't it?
If you've already emailed him,
then he knows what it's about.
He won't want to be reminded,
will he?
And he was never
actually charged so...
He was arrested for assault
in town the previous year.
Possession of drugs
and bicycle theft.
It was before your time, but everyone
knew he could be fucking aggressive.
Is this some kind of
new theory of yours,
some sort of
alternative perpetrate?
Emil left the party
at 11:00, wasted,
according to a number
of witnesses including myself.
And then wasn't seen again until half 4:00
in the morning by that paper delivery guy.
I want to talk to him about what he
was doing during those missing hours.
If Emil did steal the car
on the other side of town,
I'm pretty sure he won't
want to discuss it with you.
Honorable guests,
respected colleagues,
and of course students,
or maybe I should say
cherished students.
It must have been
just after 10:00.
Vasterman had been boring on
for what felt like hours.
And Emil was
pretty drunk by then.
Well, maybe not
quite as glittering
as it should have been.
At some points
there was quite a lot
of tarnish going on.
However on the whole...
You know, I never got
the stain out of that dress.
...was one
of the great success...
I was sitting just behind
this pillar here, I remember.
Couldn't see a damn thing.
Congratulations to one and...
Mate, just stop making
that fucking noise, yeah.
This isn't... No, seriously,
you're pissing me off.
- Take it easy.
- Don't touch me, mate.
- I just fucking said don't touch me!
- Hey!
Hey, come back inside.
Don't be a dick.
Fucking done, innit?
Emil, where are you going?
I don't have any notion of
where Emil Bachmann was that night,
but I'm guessing
he must have left before me.
I remember you said
you were going home
and you laughed
and said we should go easy
or something grown up,
like that.
- Good night.
- Don't go, Henry. Don't leave me.
- And then Claire turned up.
- Yeah. I remember that.
I think... well a bit
too much wine I think.
She wasn't the only one.
- Another time.
- Don't be such a boring old fart.
- Good night.
But I don't remember
if Vera was there.
- Did you see her?
- I actually can't remember.
If Emil had been
on his way home,
it should have
taken him 20 minutes,
or 30 at the most,
even in his condition.
Emil lived there with parents
and a younger sister.
It's the third house
on the left.
His parents left Kaalbringen
three or four years ago.
And Vera would have taken
this street on her way home.
Of course, you wanna know
what Emil was up to
during those hours, yeah?
Right. So all you do
is push this red button.
This feels wrong.
Okay.
It's rolling.
Now you haven't done nada.
Yes, I got your emails,
and I'm not fucking interested,
- otherwise I would've responded, wouldn't I?
- I just... I wasn't sure,
maybe that you didn't get them.
It was the wrong email.
Clearly, I got
the fucking emails,
and I'm not fucking interested,
am I?
Because this is my house, okay?
I just wanna hear
your side of the story.
- I said fuck off!
- Don't you wanna give
your version of events,
of like...
You just wanna
fuck with my life, don't you?
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
I'm leaving.
Emil was a moron
even back then.
It's totally immoral
to film someone
who doesn't
know he's being filmed.
Immoral?
Get off your high horse.
It would've been immoral
not to let him make a statement.
That may be the case,
but this definitely
wasn't the way to do it,
all right?
I was the one who filmed him,
all you have to do
is pretend you weren't there.
Emil, hi. Sorry.
I... I just came
around the back because I...
I did ring on your door
but I guess...
You need to leave,
Paula, you're trespassing.
Um, I... I just...
Yeah, I can't let you
use that material, Paula.
Well, it's my film so I can do
whatever I fucking want.
It was the wrong email.
Clearly, I got
the fucking emails,
and I'm not fucking interested,
am I?
I... I thought this is meant to
be the portrait of a young girl.
You know, like a...
"A community marked by grief,"
isn't that what you said?
The... the loss of Vera?
And instead you're...
you're twisting it.
You're turning it into some weird
bloody police investigation.
- It's wrong!
- You know, um...
It seems like you don't
want me to make this film.
You know, to be
perfectly honest, no, I don't!
Why did you come then?
Well, that's
a bloody good question!
Look, I don't want you to leave.
You and I obviously have a very
different view of morality, Paula,
'cause you... you simply
don't seem to give a shit.
- You're right.
- Yeah.
I mean, if Emil doesn't wanna
be in the film,
he doesn't have to be.
I was wrong.
That is not what this film
is supposed to be about.
So delete it then.
Okay. I'll delete it.
I'll do it right now.
So you'll stay?
You know, to my mind,
you should interview yourself.
I mean, knew Vera
as well as anyone, didn't you?
Um, you know,
I don't think anyone
could know her,
apart from possibly Claire.
But why can't anyone know her?
I guess it's like, like, B said,
she was a...
Well, she was the odd one out.
To me she was a mystery.
Or maybe you're just
in love with her.
Wasn't my type.
You know, a week before
Jacob Kall was arrested,
- I was called in to see the headmaster.
- Oh, wait...
because I really wanna
record you when you tell me.
Okay? After dinner?
After dinner, all right.
Fine.
Just gonna stick this on you.
All right.
- It's a mic.
- All right. Got it.
Okay. Keep it on your pockets.
- Okay.
- Here we go.
It's very surreal.
Um, I actually might
have some more wine.
- Do you want some?
- No, no, I'm good. Thanks
I want my wits about me.
I'm recording.
Now? While I'm washing.
Is this some kind of kitchen
sink drama you're making?
You always need cutaways.
Okay.
- Here?
- Yeah.
Okay.
Okay. So just...
Uh, start talking about
what you were talking about
this afternoon.
Oh, um...
Well, yeah.
Um, two weeks
after Vera disappeared,
I was called in
to see Neumann-Hansen.
The headmaster.
Exactly.
How are the
reports coming along Henry?
It can be a bit of a challenge
the first time around.
Yeah, to say the least.
Um, the special assignment
in literature,
the essay, has been, uh,
the deciding factor for most of them.
It's a grave responsibility.
- Mm-hmm.
- Their futures are at stake.
But I'm more than happy to help
you if you feel unsure about it.
Oh, thank... yes.
I... I'm not gonna say
no to that.
I've only been
with them a term so...
- Good.
- Oh, bring me the results,
and we'll look over it together.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Vera Kall...
Did she have time
to hand in her essay?
Sadly, no.
It didn't work out that way.
I regretted it almost
immediately, you know?
You know, I...
I knew very well
that Vera had been getting
good marks
all the way through
her time at college.
And I should have just
said to him, you know,
I've given her the same marks that she's
been getting during her Autumn term,
but Neumann-Hansen insisted,
you know, he felt that
she must have had time
to have written something
before she disappeared,
and if it wasn't in
the locker at school
then it must be at her house.
So, I had to go around
to see her parents,
which is the absolute
last thing I wanted to do.
Even if,
God forbid she's dead,
she still deserves a proper
school graduation report.
Right.
And it must be fair.
Correct.
Just because she's disappeared,
doesn't mean you have to be
excessively generous.
Just fair.
I think you understand
what I mean.
Erich Neumann-Hansen.
Headmaster, City College.
Hello.
Henry Maertens.
I'm the one who called.
Yes.
Might we come in?
Oh, yes, please.
Sorry about the food.
We are the ones
who should apologize,
barging in like this
during your lunch.
But we have decided...
that Vera must have her school
reports, despite all.
We mustn't lose hope.
I'd like to take a look
at a school essay
that Vera was working on.
I don't know if perhaps
you know where Vera keeps...
Of course, we know.
I assume you mean
her special report on Céline
that was due to be
turned in Friday?
I was anything but
comfortable with the situation.
Hated it.
- Top drawer.
- All right. Thanks.
I don't want anything
removed from here.
Yeah. Of course not.
Of course.
Could I get a moment to myself?
At first, I found it
very hard to concentrate.
That was largely because
I could...
I could feel
the presence of her father.
His eyes just, like,
drilling into my back.
Even though he wasn't
really in the room.
But I could feel him.
And then I got drawn into
what she'd written.
She's very good.
She'd largely finished
the work.
And when I got home
I regretted the visit.
It just felt like
we'd encroached
or had butted into
their sorrow.
What did it really matter,
you know, what final grade
Vera received?
Sorry for disturbing.
Have you seen Tomas?
Oh.
Yes, yes, yes.
Yes, come on.
Come on.
Two days later,
Jacob Kall was arrested.
How did that feel?
- Surreal.
- In what sense?
In the sense that we'd been
allowed to walk around the kitchen
where Vera had been
beaten to death by her father.
Look... Samaria.
It's for sale.
Did you bring your camera?
Oh, the house
isn't going anywhere.
Feels very strange
coming back here.
Really, what I
what I was thinking.
She's buried somewhere
under your feet.
Welcome.
I must apologize
for the state of things here,
but the place is sold as seen.
Perfect environment
for children to grow up in.
Great potential for conversion, renovation...
Or rip it down,
build your own.
Why don't you
have a look around?
Thanks.
Contents included.
It's exactly
like I remember it.
Pieter Vogel.
What?
I'm just thinking maybe
she had a thing with Pieter Vogel.
Really? Have you
spoken to him about it?
No, he would never have been able
to keep his mouth shut.
Oh.
One thing's for certain, anyway,
Pieter never slept in this bed,
because if he had,
Jacob Kall would've
knocked him off as well.
Mm.
Why don't you
have a look around?
So, when did you meet Clara?
Clara? Why do ask?
Just curious.
We met a year...
a year or two
after this in Antwerp.
What about when you were
living here in Kaalbringen?
- What?
- Well, did you have some special lady friend?
No. No, that wasn't, um...
It wasn't in the script,
so to speak.
- Groundhog Day.
- Exactly.
Well, I know a couple
of the girls from our class
who were more than interested.
- Taboo.
- What did you say?
Never on the cards.
I don't think I found Henry
incredibly attractive.
Um, he was so sweet
and, sort of, cute.
And if you made
a special effort
and seemed a bit interested
he blushed.
So, without Henry Maertens,
that last term
would have been bloody boring.
Yeah, so, all the girls
had a crush on Henry Maertens?
- Mm-hm.
- What about the boys?
- Who did they love?
- You know...
Yes, but you say it.
Vera, of course.
I think out of everyone
you really knew her the best.
Yeah. Vera was...
the finest, the best,
and I still miss her,
so terribly still,
and I think I told her everything.
She was always so wise
and thoughtful,
as if she knew everything.
Did she ever tell you
anything about herself, her life?
Oh, no. She didn't.
Hardly anything.
Some things.
I know she had
a tough time at home...
I saw her bruises.
She... she tried
covering them up with makeup.
Hi. Yes, yeah.
I... I have it right here.
That's... that's why
I tried to call you earlier.
Um... Ah, no, it's in the car.
Never talked about it
ever, she didn't want pity.
Do you think maybe she was gay?
- What?
- Well, just, you know, that...
As you said,
all the boys were interested,
but she was just really didn't
seem to care about at all.
It's not
so very surprising, you know.
Vera was smart.
And she just wanted
school to be over
so she could start living.
She longed to get away
from her family.
No wonder.
And did she...
Did she have a boyfriend?
Not that I know of.
Maybe Maertens, if so.
Henry Maertens?
Yeah.
But she never told me anything.
Great. Yeah. I'll...
I'll speak to you.
But if you'll ask me,
I'd say Henry.
When did you
meet with Claire Meitens?
Before you and I met in Maardam.
And when were you
gonna tell me that?
- Well... I...
- Or...
You know, I don't know
what to think, Henry,
because I know
that you haven't been honest,
- and I know that you've lied.
- Lied?!
Lied, Paula?!
You're the one who's lied!
- Yes, okay!
- Yeah, do you know what I think this is?!
This is jealousy!
That's what this bloody film is!
Your jealousy and the fact that
Vera wasn't in love with you.
- Okay, that's not true.
- 'Cause that's what this whole bloody film is, isn't it?
It's not actually about Vera,
it's about your gigantic narcissistic ego.
Yeah, I was in love with her.
But I accepted
that it wasn't mutual.
You see, I knew it.
You've got a fucking weird way of
working, you know that?
I mean,
you and your twisted theories.
And whether something
is true or not,
it just seems to be
fucking irrelevant to you.
Yeah, well, if it's not true, Henry,
then why don't you explain this?
"Be thou the rainbow
and the storms of life. -H"
For Henry?
Where did you get this?
I found it in Samaria
about a month ago.
- You don't know shit.
- And you do?
I loved Vera...
and she loved me.
No camera.
Just give me some time.
There's a darkness to it
and a sense of foreboding to it.
But there really
is a sense of passion.
There really is
a sense of passion,
but let me ask you
this one question:
Do you not think
there is a pessimism
to the whole thing,
do you not think that there is
death on every single page?
I would say
exactly the opposite.
I think the language is so full of
life and so incredibly beautiful.
I would like to write about
Céline's use of language instead.
I set aside about 30
minutes, I think,
but we must have sat there
for about two hours.
I would never normally have devoted
so much time to just one student,
but, uh...
I didn't want to leave,
And I liked her being there.
I liked...
I liked her laugh,
and her thoughts, and her...
Her everything, I suppose.
We agreed to meet again the
very next afternoon, I remember.
Under the pretext of Vera wanted
to talk about her idea of...
of Céline's use of language,
but we both knew that wasn't the reason.
I mean, we... we made up
various different excuses
along the way
just to be together.
It's getting a bit cold.
I'm gonna run in
and get a jumper, okay?
Do you... do you want one?
No, thanks.
The library obviously
had its fixed opening hours...
but I had a key.
So, we knew we wouldn't
be disturbed,
well, at least
for a little while.
You must've had
a fuck load of luck.
Well, then, maybe.
What would've happened
if someone had found out?
Honestly speaking,
I don't know.
I mean, it's out of the
question, of course,
it was taboo, like I said.
But also... beautiful.
Hm...
The following week I, uh,
smuggled her back to Mrs. Kuntze's house.
I think Vera told her parents...
she was staying on the library
or something
for an extra few hours.
Maybe it's a bit exaggerated
to say that I smuggled her in.
I'm sure, Mrs. Kuntze would've
been very accommodating.
- Meow.
- Shh.
We just...
we just had to be very careful.
It's just one, one bit...
that I have to
talk to you about.
Vera absolutely did not want
her parents to find out that...
- It's one bit.
- I can wait.
It wasn't even an option
and I understood it.
I'd seen the marks on her...
on her body,
not... not that she
talked about it.
Maybe it was then
that I realized
that I was actually
exposing her to a risk.
And now you're in trouble,
I'd say.
And when I was alone,
and all of this initial rush
had... had settled...
I knew that our relationship
just could never work.
What about at the party, then?
On the last night,
did you not see each other?
But of course,
from time to time,
you might just
find yourself needing
a bit of actual guidance
from your
highly salaried lecturer.
And as you look up
eagerly seeking his attention,
you are met with the sight of your
eminently qualified tutor, Wasserman,
sitting bolt upright
in his opulent chair
behind his imposing desk,
taking a nap...
It's not true.
It's all a lie.
How does he defy the laws of physics?
We were able to internalize
this extraordinary feat
of vertical hibernation with
the help of your Jovan's mobile.
And, as you know, it was published
eventually in the college magazine.
Even though
it was very dangerous
for Vera and I
to see each other,
my body just ached for her.
Our only element of
regret, looking back on it,
is that we didn't manage to record
the accompanying sound effects.
Good night, kids.
Don't do anything I wouldn't do.
- Good night.
- Don't go, Henry.
Dance with me.
All right.
Good night, good night.
I have to go, I have to go,
I have to go. All right.
Don't be such a boring old fart.
Okay. Good night.
Emil Bachman,
I think had stumbled home,
and then I went down
to our usual meeting place.
Far too early,
as it turned out.
I thought it'd take 15 minutes
to get onto the bridge.
I must have walked very quickly because it
wouldn't have taken me more than five, I think.
And so many thoughts
were passing through my head
as I waited and I remembered...
Has she snuck at home
or has she stayed behind
at the party?
I didn't know what to think.
But then she arrived,
slightly out of breath,
on her bicycle.
And then we went back
to the Pampas, to my place.
You're right, it is...
it is getting cold, isn't it?
And then you went back
to Mrs. Kuntze's.
She never went home,
is that what you're saying?
I'm gonna go get a...
a sweater.
- Well, I'll get it.
- Coming right back.
Henry, I can...
I can explain.
Stop.
Stop, stop! I can...
Come back!
No! Stop! No!
What the fuck are you doing?
You're a sick person,
you know that.
No, please...
Oh...
No.
No. Oh, no.
- Are you awake, darling?
- Yeah.
I have to go.
We should talk, Vera.
We're always talking.
I don't think what we're...
I don't think
what we're doing is right
at this point in time.
I'm sorry.
What?
I think we should maybe
take a break, you and I.
The thing is, Vera,
you never tell me anything...
ever.
And I... I do see what's
happening, I do understand.
I know this man is your father,
but you have got to
report him to the police.
I'm saying this
for your best interest...
And that would be to not
be there for me?
- Of course not.
- How soothing.
You can't continue like this.
Vera, Vera.
Wait, Vera.
Suspected assault,
damage to property,
but you are also wanted
for questioning...
for withholding information
into the investigation
of the murder of Vera Kall.
In other words, Vera Kall
did not cycle home at midnight
but three hours later.
Now, although you were
well aware
that the police investigation
into her disappearance
was not making any progress,
you chose not to
tell us what you knew.
I thought she'd ran away.
I thought she was staying away on purpose.
I thought she'd get in touch...
once things had calmed down.
Or you're lying
and we've got the wrong bloke
locked up in prison.
I did not kill Vera, all right.
I would never...
All right, then. I don't happen
to think that either.
I loved her.
Hmm. But apparently,
not enough to share with us
what you knew.
Well, that was the last thing she
would have wanted, for God's sake.
She was terrified of her father.
If we had known then
what we know now
we probably would have arrested
Jacob Kall a few weeks earlier.
We might have found the remains,
or at best,
found her still alive.
He was hitting her.
I saw the bruises on her body,
if he had found out...
I didn't want her
to put her through that risk.
How many times
do I have to tell you?
Well, either that, or you were
just too much of a coward
to own up to what you had done.
- No.
- I mean, a teacher
seducing a student.
Maybe not illegal
but inappropriate.
In no way are you being dropped
from this investigation,
but we're not gonna
hold onto you any longer.
As for the assault,
you can expect a...
a fine
and a conditional sentence.
Should I call the police?
That's ten thousand Euros.
It should be enough to cover
the cost of your equipment,
at least.
Move.
Are you coming?
All her things were gone
by the time
I got back to Antwerp.
Was she answering her phone?
What did she say?
What? Nothing endearing, then.
I miss Clara.
I miss my dog.
Yeah.
You've paid a high price.
Me too, in a way.
Obviously, I shouldn't have
done what I did either.
Definitely crossed the line.
It's really made me think,
I mean, your reaction
was totally justified
and I should prob... No, I should...
I should apologize.
No, it's wrong.
I'm the one who's at fault,
and if I had just told the truth
when all this happened
all those years ago, and then...
Then I'd never have
anything to hide from you.
Instead, I've just chosen to
keep a secret all these years.
I loved Vera.
My God, you must have
hated Jacob Kall.
Probably still hate him.
Yeah. Yeah, I do.
I hate him with
every bit of my heart.
I've dropped the project.
It's not gonna be a film.
Good.
It's just too, uh...
Too heavy.
Sad.
Too private.
Sometimes it is just better to
let things lie, like you said.
And, uh...
and maybe I just have to accept
that she lies buried somewhere,
the forest's edge,
and that the memory of Vera
is more important.
Sometimes I like to pretend
that the drunk at the station...
- did actually see her.
- Mm.
That she'd reached
an end point that morning and...
managed to get away.
That in spite of everything,
she actually boarded
the first train to Altmaar,
while the rest of us were
lying there, sleeping it off,
she packed her bag
and left Samaria for good.
Perhaps without even knowing
where she was going.
And for the first time
she felt free.
Really free.
I think she found a better life
somewhere else;
another town,
another country...
because she was
worth that much.
Vera deserved
the best of everything.
- Who's that?
- No idea.
I said her name was Clara,
and she works in
our Brussels office
unless I'm mistaken.
- Thank you.